Docs audit for credentials section (#317)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/concepts/05_credentials/05_verification.md

title: Verification
---

KILT lets a Verifier check if the information in a credential presented by a Claimer is correct and valid.
With the presentation of the credential, the Claimer also presents evidence that a third party (i.e., an Attester) ensured the correctness of the Claimer’s attributes.

The Verifier trusts this third party either because they trust their reputation directly or they trust a delegation structure that this Attester is part of.
For example, a State department issuing driving licenses.

For the verification process:

-   The Claimer needs their credential and the private key associated with their identifier
-   The Verifier needs the identifier of the trusted Attester

During the verification process the Claimer wants to prove the following things to the Verifier:

-   The credential is valid (i.e., not revoked by its Attester)
-   The attributes in the credential actually refer to it's Presenter
-   The credential contains information relevant for the Verifier for this use case

> - That an Attester ensured the correctness of the Claimer's attributes

Reviewer: Maybe add _trustworthy_ to it? 

Not so important though.

Author: ```suggestion
- That an Attester ensured the correct and trustworthy-ness of the Claimer's attributes
```

title: Verification
---

KILT lets a Verifier check if the information in a credential presented by a Claimer is correct and valid.
With the presentation of the credential, the Claimer also presents evidence that a third party (i.e., an Attester) ensured the correctness of the Claimer’s attributes.

The Verifier trusts this third party either because they trust their reputation directly or they trust a delegation structure that this Attester is part of.
For example, a State department issuing driving licenses.

For the verification process:

-   The Claimer needs their credential and the private key associated with their identifier
-   The Verifier needs the identifier of the trusted Attester

During the verification process the Claimer wants to prove three things to the Verifier:

> 

Reviewer: Should we mention something here about the entity attesting?

Like the claimer wants to show that his information is certified by a trustworthy entity.

Author: @kilted-andres Could you explain a little more as I've not heard of this. This is like some way of showing a "badge" or some such?

-   The credential is valid (i.e., not revoked by its Attester)

> -   The attributes in the credential actually refer to the Claimer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The attributes in the credential actually refer to it's Presenter
```

So to proof that it is actually your ID and you didn't just not find it. This is done with the signature.

Author: Aren't the Claimer and the Presenter the same thing? Trying to keep terminology consistent…

Reviewer: Only if the credentials did not landed on the wrong hands.

Reviewer: Let's say you are a website and you request a credentials from some users. You could take this credentials and then show them, _present_ them, to a different instance. In this case you will be the _presenter_, but not the _claimer_.

So gaining control of a credential is not that hard, on the other hand gaining control of the private keys should be very hard. 

The attributes in the credential always refer to the claimer. Interesting is only to know if the person presenting the credentials it's the actual owner of them.

Within our workflow, proving you have access to the private keys means that you are really an identity owner. That's why the verifier provides a challenge to be signed on each presentation of a credential.

-   The credential contains information relevant for the Verifier for this use case

## Requesting a credential from a Claimer

The Verifier may request a credential from a Claimer, providing the following data:

-   `cTypeHash`: Which CType hashes the Verifier can work with for the use case. They can provide multiple options, to regard as alternatives.
-   `trustedAttesters`: Which Attesters to consider trusted for each specified CType.
-   `requiredProperties`: Which properties for each specified CType must at least be revealed for the Verifier to consider the presentation sufficient.

    :::info

    [Read more on selective disclosure](#presenting-a-credential-with-selective-disclosure).

    :::

> <!-- TODO: Only example I can find that shows this has it outside of the CTypes -->

Author: Is this the right place for `challenge`?

Reviewer: Yes, this is the right place for the `challenge`.

-   `challenge`: A nonce, which the Verifier can use to ensure that the presentation generated by the Claimer is fresh and not replayed by some other older interactions.

### Example

> ```json
>   "requirements": [{
>     "cTypeHash":"0x3291bb126e33b4862d421bfaa1d2f272e6cdfc4f96658988fbcffea8914bd9ac",
>     "trustedAttesters":["did:kilt:4pehddkhEanexVTTzWAtrrfo2R7xPnePpuiJLC7shQU894aY"],
>     "requiredProperties": ["Email"]
>   }],
> ```

Reviewer: The challenge should be there as well. 

This is an example from the [web3-login-demo](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/web3-login-demo), that uses the kilt sdk to wrap a `Kilt.IRequestCredential` in a `Kilt.IMessage`

**the message with the Credential-Request before encryption:** 
```suggestion
 {
   "body": {
      "content": {
         "cTypes": [
            {
               "cTypeHash": "0x3291bb126e33b4862d421bfaa1d2f272e6cdfc4f96658988fbcffea8914bd9ac",
               "trustedAttesters": [
                  "did:kilt:4pehddkhEanexVTTzWAtrrfo2R7xPnePpuiJLC7shQU894aY"
               ],
               "requiredProperties": [
                  "Email"
               ]
            },
            {
               "cTypeHash": "0x47d04c42bdf7fdd3fc5a194bcaa367b2f4766a6b16ae3df628927656d818f420",
               "trustedAttesters": [
                  "did:kilt:4pehddkhEanexVTTzWAtrrfo2R7xPnePpuiJLC7shQU894aY"
               ],
               "requiredProperties": [
                  "Twitter"
               ]
            }
         ],
         "challenge": "0x5a1a17eca9ddf6b4d14dffb2abd1411fe9235927975a246b3963db86dfb7de5f"
      },
      "type": "request-credential"
   }
}
```

If it is too big, you could use only the scope inside of `content`. This means unwrapping it from the message. 

Or just one of the cTypes.

If the Claimer tampered with the credential, the re-calculated root hash won't match any attestation on the chain.
On the other hand, if the Verifier can find an attestation with the calculated hash on the chain and hasn't been revoked, the credential is valid.

However, this doesn't give the Verifier the guarantee that the Claimer is the rightful/legitimate owner of the credential presented.

### Verifying the owner of the presented credential

When issued, a credential is linked to the KILT decentralized identifier (DID) of the original Claimer.
The Verifier can resolve the DID to the public key of the Claimer according to the [KILT DID specification](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/spec-kilt-did).

The Verifier assumes that the private key for the DID public key is only known to the owner of the credential, and isn't shared across users.
Therefore, when requesting the Claimer to generate a presentation, the Verifier challenges the Claimer to sign a nonce (a random number used once) that the Verifier sends together with their request.

> If the Claimer can sign both the nonce and the presentation with the private key that only the credential's owner should have knowledge of, the Verifier won't be sure that the Claimer is the legitimate owner of the credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Claimer can sign both the nonce and the presentation with the private key that only the credential's owner should have knowledge of, the Verifier can be sure that the Claimer is the legitimate owner of the credential.
```

Reviewer: It is only one signature inside the presentation. The credential and the nonce are part of the input for it.  

I don't know if this is so important though.

Reviewer: Example Credential Presentation:

```
{
   "claim": {
      "cTypeHash": "0x3291bb126e33b4862d421bfaa1d2f272e6cdfc4f96658988fbcffea8914b9ac",
      "contents": {
         "Email": "refij28030@in2reach.com"
      },
      "owner": "did:kilt:4tFve5tV8dA8hQ74Q2jFYB8sep7HS2Mi4Zdm9DFa25rtiu5E"
   },
   "claimHashes": [
      "0x68176b55844c0645a0bd778cafb67185581cdb32106b89a8691d29b8402e37cd",
      "0xf8b622c16489ddf7bd601bbbbe69e3e5e865341ac001d08816a89c977fa2a4e7"
   ],
   "claimNonceMap": {
      "0xec2a9c4ed9575eb5024d93d9c7d2a08430d9a642e6da067386d091f2b419c2ac": "df741c65-ba1d-4b21-9b61-0fae5e2caa45",
      "0x702ce98117a4772b27547e61b6ab035da2c2947852c933c1888e0c40bce47f75": "8ae79e6a-ff2f-4a8c-8061-b2d33243d006"
   },
   "delegationId": null,
   "legitimations": [],
   "rootHash": "0x87d4140cf379e201746567bb4c1aad025965255362d66ea816104219b3e188e4",
   "claimerSignature": {
      "signature": "0xbe3f49755f15e23bbad60c845cfc9ec735e3663728cfb0c588186e4d34272b27cb23ff299180da2eaa966b03dcde2273f29d610df46a08c530b6418cf45a2683",
      "keyUri": "did:kilt:4tFve5tV8dA8hQ74Q2jFYB8sep7HS2Mi4Zdm9DFa25rtiu5E#0x74906624b68b9c2231d26e0df563499e3ef411982ec4da9f604743447d48adb8",
      "challenge": "0x404944876708af61a71e885954eda5ccea39b2ceae873168c96617d23f74bc40"
   }
}
```
